So we're gonna kick it in
with situation analysis.
You will notice that we spent the first
half of the day talking about
the strategy part, the kickoff part,
prepping everybody with interviews.
Really setting up our greater, broader
context and understanding for content and
content strategy to kind of
identify the complexities of it.
We're gonna be digging into tools now for
the next couple of hours,
which will involve a few more
exercises for you guys as well.
So if I can ask you to all sort
of within this framework, and
maybe you've already
been thinking about this.
But think about a project
that you worked on or
one that you're currently involved in that
is gonna help you kind of have context for
some of the work that I'm gonna ask
you to do this afternoon, okay?
All right, so the situation analysis,
this is a core component of creating any
kind of strategy where we are gonna
take a look at our content ecosystem.
We kinda talked about this,
all these questions that we need to answer
about our content before we
can start making decisions or
recommendations around that content.
So, a situation analysis,
when we talk about it in content strategy,
is the gathering, synthesis, and
reporting of information that
impacts any kind of content choice.
So, remember that framework we went over,
editorial experience,
structure, and process.
We want to dig into questions
about all of those things.
So let's focus on situation,
what's going on right now with content?
So this is some of the information that
hopefully you'll be able to get in that
initial documentation dump or
through your stakeholder interviews.
We wanna know what kind of mission,
vision, and related goals and
strategies are in operation
before we get started.
Obviously, you'll do your
stakeholder interviews and
user research that you have access to or
that you can conduct yourself,
even if it's just kind
of guerrilla research.
Taking a look if it makes sense at
competitor websites or competing products.
Conducting a content audit, early on,
if that is something that is useful.
A technology audit that would have an
impact on content creation, delivery, and
governance.
Any kind of site analytics that
will inform what content people
are interested in and why,
if you can get at that.
Search engine optimization activities and
industry trends,
if those are relevant
with regard to content.
So again, if we think about how we've
maybe approached content the past,
which is okay,
we've got to replace this lorem ipsum.
Taking a step back and
seeing all this stuff that can and
should be informing content
recommendations is a big shift in mindset.
So you can take this slide and hand it
to somebody on your project team and
just say, we've got some more things to
talk about before we get to the writing
of the words or the creating of
the interactive company history timeline.
I'm just gonna use that as a dumb example,
but you have to believe me when I tell you
I use it as a dumb example and have for
15 years, okay, all right.
So these are the four things that we're
gonna focus on this afternoon because I
find that these are kind of the four
areas where we usually get the most
information that's relevant to our
recommendations moving forward, okay?
We kinda dug into stakeholder interviews,
at least techniques, early.
So we're gonna talk about
user research here.